In our tab mapping,
loop closure is detected using a bag-of-words approach.
Bag-of-words is commonly used in vision-based mapping.
A feature is a very specific characteristic of
an image like a patch with a complex texture,
or a well-defined edge or corner.
In our tab map, the default method for extracting features from
an image is called Speeded Up Robust Features or SURF.
Each feature has a descriptor associated with it.
A feature descriptor is
a unique and robust representation of the pixels that make up a feature.
In SURF, the point of interests where the feature is
located is split into smaller square sub-regions.
From these sub-regions, the pixel intensities in regions
of regularly spaced sample points are calculated and compared.
The differences between the sample points are used
to categorize the sub-regions of the image.
Comparing feature descriptors directly is time consuming,
so vocabulary is used for faster comparison.
This is where similar features or synonyms are clustered together.
The collection of these clusters represent the vocabulary.
One of feature descriptor is mapped to one and the vocabulary,
it is called quantization.
At this point, the feature is now linked to
a word and can be referred to as a visual word.
When all features in an image are quantized,
the image is now a bag-of-words.
Each word keeps a link to images that it is associated with,
making image retrieval more efficient over a large data set.
To compare an image with our previous images,
a matching score is given to all images containing the same words.
Each word keeps track of which image it has been seen in,
so similar images can be found.
This is called an inverted index.
If a word is seen in an image,
the score of this image will increase.
If an image shares many visual words with the query image, it will score higher.
A Bayesian filter is used to evaluate the scores.
This is the hypothesis that an image has been seen before.
When the hypothesis reaches a predefined threshold H,
a loop closure is detected.